
Fourth planet in the Solar System: Mars.
Mankind's first permanent colony on Mars: MPO.
MPO is the new hope for thousands of people seeking a fresh start.
I didn't get one, though. For one year, 3 months, and 16 days, I have lived in a MPO PD prison cell. Sector 805, cell number 6.
My name is... well, was "Doctor" Albert West. It's just "West" now, at least to the guards. I came to MPO for the same reason everyone else did: freedom. Freedom to conduct research, in my case.
That lead to me being branded a "murderer." I lost everything and got thrown into this cell.
That's in the past, though.
I've got worse problems now.
My rations have run out. The guards have disappeared. Emergency power's still on, but there's no telling for how long. When it goes out, so will life support. My chances don't look good.
I've been stuck in here for a week or so. I've been replaying it in my head, over and over, trying to piece together what happened.
The guards had been acting suspiciously for a few days, reducing our free roam hours. One day, though, the cell doors never opened for breakfast. No announcement over the intercom, no guards making their rounds. Nothing.
Several hours later, my tray slot opened up. It must have been well past lunch: I was starving.
It was the guard. Henk.
His eyes were... strange... like his irises were bleeding. I could tell something horrible was going on, despite the silence.
"There will be a prisoner transfer today. Be ready at 17:00 hours, and take this. Heh. It'll be your only meal today."
He closed the tray slot. I could hear his steps fade as he got further away.
Suddenly, I heard noises.
Batons whistling through the air, loud thuds, people crying out in pain. I couldn't even tell who was running: was it the guards, or the prisoners?
The room flooded with red light, a siren blared over the intercom system. A voice cut through the chaotic noise.
"Attention all prisoners: we will begin the transfer. Cells will be opened one at a time. Follow the guards and obey their instructions."
"Prisoners that fail to comply will be executed on the spot!"
"We're starting with Section 805."
I heard the unmistakable rumble of cell doors opening through the walls.
"Cell number 1."
"Cell number 2."
"Cell number 3."
"Cell number 4."
"Cell number 5."
Last on the block was my cell, and I was ready to get out of here.
"Cell si--"
Darkness. Silence.
The door stopped moving. All the footsteps and shuffling moved further and further away.
I peeked into the hall through the crack, but it was empty. The guards never returned for me.
Emergency power finally kicked in. The air circulation fan started spinning again, but the door didn't budge! I was stuck!
In the past week, I've tried yelling, clanking my can, pounding on the door... no one's coming.
The only thing I can think of is the air duct. Normally, it's electrified to stop inmates from tampering with it, but the fan's barely spinning... maybe it's safe to use by now.
I don't have a choice. Electrocution would be preferable to starvation or suffocation.
I can't hold on for much longer, but I have to survive... if only to see her one more time.