<1> This is the default keyboard and mouse setting. The default settings can be customized in the options menu.

<2> This is the default gamepad setting. Please be sure to toggle "Enable Controller" under the "Input & Play" section of the options menu. "Aim Assist" can be turned on to assist with aiming ranged weapons.

<3> Tactical panel shows the overall equipment status. Some usable items can be equipped in the quick slots. The number of quick slots is dependent on what suit is being worn. West can equip up to 3 different weapons in his main and sub weapon slots, swapping quickly during the heat of combat. Weapon slots have a red gauge bar representing heat buildup. If a weapon gets too hot, West will drop it. Dropped weapons can be picked up from the floor. Suits have limited durability. They may be destroyed if the durability reaches zero. The three slots above the suit are for power packs, oxygen and temperature canisters.

<4> West's body condition is very important as it determines how well he will survive in the game. Try to keep up with his needs and watch his contamination level. Physical activities such as sprinting, melee attacks, and temperature can affect his thirst and hunger needs. Floating red cells represent contamination level and overall body condition is represented by the background color. High contamination and low body condition can affect the natural healing process and eventually lead West to a slow death.

<5> The environment panel contains important information such as the current temperature and oxygen level of West's surroundings. These can affect his survival needs so watch out for abnormal levels.

<6> Often areas West explores will be dark, but West can use a light source to help him see. Once a light source is equipped, it can be toggled on and off. Flashlights will need a charged power pack in order to function, and can be turned off to conserve energy. West will automatically turn his light off during sleeping and traveling by tram to save power.

<7> West can scan for intractable objects. It will highlight any nearby containers, doors, and items on the ground.

<8> West can drag some objects. Moving objects can sometimes reveal hidden doors, items, or air vents. Moving objects will drain some stamina.

<9> When West is not facing any intractable objects, press the "interact button" to interact with items on the floor. Pick up or drop items on the floor either by dragging and dropping or right clicking on the item. Press the "get all button" to pick up all items. Items can only be used once in West's inventory.

<10> Sprinting drains West's stamina and depletes oxygen. It also alerts enemies in the area, including enemies on the other side of doors. West can't sprint if he runs out of stamina or if he has a fractured leg.

<11> Once he has a bag equipped, West can manage his inventory. The inventory is organized into 6 different categories. Some items can be used by double clicking. The items can be moved around by dragging and dropping or with the right mouse button. Stacks can be split by pressing left shift and the left mouse button. Drag and drop the same items on top of each other to stack them. There are different stack limits for each kind of item. Game pad instructions are displayed in the inventory.

<12> West can sit on chairs, sofas or benches. Stamina recovery rate is increased greatly while sitting. Time flows a little faster while doing this. Use a movement key to stand up again.

<13> Locked doors can be opened using the appropriate keycard only. Search the area or look for clues in the logs to find the right keycards. Hacked keycards can be found all over MPO.

<14> Dodging can be used to avoid attacks. Each dodge will use some stamina. West can't dodge if he has a fractured leg, or if he doesn't have enough stamina to dodge. If using a gamepad, double tap in the desired direction to dodge.

<15> West can charge a melee attack if the attack button is held down. When fully charged, this attack will do 2X damage. Melee weapon attacks to an enemy's back also do 4X damage.

<16> Power packs are the only means to power your equipment. They are required for ranged weapons and flashlights. West may recharge them at charging stations located throughout the game. Power packs are upgradable through research.

<17> Zoom out the camera to look around or zoom in for a close look.

<18> Activating West's shield requires a power pack and enough energy. West can move and dodge while blocking, but is unable to attack or sprint. Blocking an attack using the shield will absorb damage depending on the power pack's tech level, as well as protect him from fractures and bleeding. Getting hit while the shield is up will drain energy from West's power pack.

<19> Fatigue is reduced by sleeping. West can sleep by interacting with beds. Pressing a movement key will wake him up. Sleeping will reduce West's fatigue and time will pass more quickly. Upon waking, West will be given a stamina reduction bonus. Fatigue increases gradually over time, but physical activities such as running and melee attacks increase the rate it builds. Fatigue can affect West's maximum stamina level once it gets high enough.

<20> Customize and upgrade ranged weapons by assembling them with different barrel and heatsink parts. Each core part of the ranged weapon has limited pin link capacity and durability. All three parts are upgradable through research. Some parts have special attributes, like laser sights or silencers. Weapons can be repaired by placing them in the Nano Reconstruction Bay.

<21> Interact with a tram door to travel to other locations. The location West is traveling to must be powered by first using the power control console in Central Control. Riding the tram will take in-game time, but West will recover a little fatigue during this. When aboard, West will not consume oxygen and thermal energy from his cansiters.

<22> The power control console can be used to connect and disconnect the power from Central Control to the other locations on Mars. The generator has limited output capacity that can be expanded with upgrades. The generator will overheat if West uses more power than it can produce. When it begins to overheat a countdown will appear. Once the countdown finishes, the generator will shut down, causing a colony-wide blackout. Trams won't run without power, so don't get stuck!

<23> West can recharge his currently equipped oxygen canister by using the oxygen rechargers found throughout the Mars colony. Oxygen canisters are upgradable through research.

<24> West can recharge his currently equipped thermal canister by using the thermal rechargers found throughout the Mars colony. Thermal canisters are upgradable through research.

<25> Beacons can be thrown from the inventory or hot bar. Once on the ground, they can be interacted with to customize their color and information. Notes can be written in the text field to mark points of interest. Beacons and their color are shown on the Mars map, and the beacon's notes can be read by hovering the cursor over the icon. Picking up a beacon clears any notes saved on it.

<26> West can replace the filter in an oxygen generator to restore the oxygen to a normal level in the area. Restoring the oxygen level has an impact on the infection rate and evolution speed, as well as allow West to breath without the aid of an oxygen canister. Filters are upgradable via research.

<27> West can replace the regulator in the temperature regulator to restore the temperature to a normal level in the area. Restoring the temperature level has an impact on the infection rate and evolution speed, as well as allow West to stay warm without the aid of a thermal canister. Thermal regulators are upgradable via research.

<28> The generator's capacity is determined by the generator's reactor modules. The generator modules degrade slowly over the time, and mutants will try to destroy the generator modules during invasions. If all of the modules are destroyed, a meltdown is triggered, destroying the generator in the process. Generator's reactor modules are upgradable through research and can be repaired to some degree. West must defend the generator at all costs.

<29> The generator is equipped with several defensive turret slots. Only SMG class weapons can be inserted. The SMGs equipped in the turrets build heat up as they fire and will shut down if they get too hot. Once they cool down, they will reactivate and resume defending the generator. Turrets are not activated automatically, so West must turn them on manually when Central Control is under attack.

<30> West can recycle materials found on Mars. Processed materials are automatically stored in the material storage container, from which the 3D printer and bio combiner will draw required materials from. Biological items and medical supplies can be recycled using the bio recycle system, while scrap and equipment can be recycled using the tech recycle system.

<31> West can refine ores and crops produced from the mine and biosphere into materials. Processed materials are automatically stored in the material storage container, from which the 3D printer and bio combiner draw required materials from. Some items, like gems, need to be placed in material storage in order to refine them.

<32> West can create various items he needs using 3D printer or bio combiner. In order to create items, they must first be researched at Herbert Research Center. As items become more advanced, better engineering software is required to produce them. When crafting, materials are pulled from the material storage container. Produced items are stored in the production output container in Nilson Engineering or Central Control.

<33> West can research some items to obtain a blueprint for that item, as well as possibly develop improved version. Researching an object will consume it. Once an item has been researched, it and any upgrades developed can be produced by using the equipment in Nilson Engineering. Advanced items will require higher levels of research software to analyze.

<34> West can excavate exotic Mars ores using the mining facility. Excavated ores are automatically transferred to the material storage in the Nilson Engineering and Central Control. Upgrading the mine software will allow excavation of rarer ores, as well as enabling remote control from Nilson Engineering and Central Control.

<35> West can grow exotic Mars vegetables and fruits using the biosphere farm facility. Harvested vegetables or fruits are automatically transferred to the material storage container in Nilson Engineering and Central Control. Upgrading the biosphere software will allow growth of rarer crops as well as enabling remote control from Nilson Engineering and Central Control.

<36> West can perform limited repairs on some weapons, suits, and generator modules using the nano reconstruction facility. This is limited to 50% of the original durability of the item unless the software is upgraded. Initially, the nano reconstruction facility can repair two items at the same time.

<37> Research analyzers, mine excavator and farm accelerator need to be upgraded if West wants to produce more advanced items. The upgrade software is produced from the corresponding data chips. These data chips are scattered around the colony, and it is up to West to find them. Clues as to their location may be found by reading logs.

<38> West's contamination level is affected by eating and drinking contaminated food or beverages. It can also be increased by taking damage from mutant attacks. As West's contamination level rises, his condition lowers. West can recover from contamination by using decontamination pills. Be sure to research them!

<39> Stamina is West's energy source for melee attacks, sprinting and dodging. Stamina naturally recovers over time, but West's body conditions and hunger affects it. Resting on a chair can increase the stamina recover rate.

<40> West's health points represent his physical condition. There are many things that can lower his hit points, including: bleeding wounds, mutant attacks, low body condition and suffocation.

<41> Thirst increases gradually over time, but physical activities such as running and using melee attacks also increase it. West's stamina usage amount depends on his level of thirst. A high level of thirst can negatively affect West's sprint speed.

<42> Hunger increases gradually over time, but physical activities such as running and using melee attacks also increase it. A high level of hunger can cause slow down melee attacks.

<43> The need to urinate or defecate is caused by drinking and eating food items. They have a small impact on West's overall body condition if left unchecked.

<44> The area's ambient oxygen level is critical to West's survival. When West needs to travel to places with little or no oxygen, he will need to equip a oxygen canister and charge it using oxygen charging station.

<45> The area's ambient temperature level can have a gradual impact on West's condition. 10-20 degrees is normal, but if West is equipped with a filled temperature canister it will help him to survive harsh temperature conditions for a longer period of time. Lower temperature levels also increase the rates of thirst and hunger.

<46> A heavy blow or explosion can result in a fractured leg. It has a great impact on maximum stamina, and West will no longer be able to sprint or dodge until it has been treated. A nanocasting kit is required to mend a broken leg.

<47> Bleeding can be caused by damage from mutant melee attacks. West will be unable to sleep while bleeding, and he will constantly lose a small amount of health over time until it is bandaged. In addition to this, West's rate of thirst increases.