[ccccff][i]Getting close, aren't you? Where was I...?

West was out of the way, but now I had to deal with Murray on my own. He saw the results, and he wanted more. Obviously, I wasn't able to do that, and the only guy who probably could was in prison. Once in my new position, Murray tasked me to find capable researchers and assign them to the project. Maybe I was lucky that West fell into my lap in the first place, because none of the others even had a clue where to start with nanomachines.

I don't see why he'd want to push the research further, anyway. Minerva was good enough on its own to sell. It would have been worth a fortune to various labs back on Earth. Hell, you could have even sold it multiple times. I told Murray we could weaponize it for government R&D labs, maybe pawn it off to other labs looking for Alzheimer's research. These big-shot visionaries can't appreciate a proven business model; research is something you can get a huge return on if you sell it to everyone at the same time. I was getting paid pretty well, though. Eventually, I stopped protesting his decision to keep it. I was too busy enjoying the luxuries of Mars to care anymore. 

I was getting what I wanted.

Murray wasn't, though... it quickly became an obsession. Within weeks, Murray took over the project personally. He couldn't stop focusing on the team's lack of progress, considering West was originally conducting his research alone. All the pieces of the puzzle quickly fell into place after he took the project's reins. As it turns out, West's work was more precise than we had realized. He wasn't designing this with eventual profit in mind. He wasn't some philanthropist hoping to cure everyone. Minerva was specially tuned to his own wife's particular case of dementia, which was apparently slightly "abnormal".

He just wanted to save his own wife, that selfish love bird. As a consequence, Minerva would never be fully effective on anyone else. Not in this state, at least. The nanomachines would go haywire looking for the correct targets. It appeared that Minerva was fine-tuned for Jennifer West's DNA, much to the frustration of Murray. Seemed pointless to develop it further, but anyone on the project's team that questioned Murray would be "reassigned" shortly after. I kept my mouth shut and my head down. I figured I'd rather pursue a pointless cure than end up in a cell like West.

For weeks, we continued to test new samples in vain, fully aware that there was no end in sight. It took longer than it should, but Murray eventually realized he was out of options: he had to bring Jennifer West to the colony to continue the project.

Keep it up, pal. Don't let me die in vain. Just a little bit more and you'll get the answers you're looking for.[-][-]