[-][ffffc0]April 9th:[-]
Hector and Nora are missing. Murray said they "quit". I'm thinking they're dead. We have a mole, or we're getting sloppy. If it's a mole they can't be very close to the source. I'm still here, after all. 

[-][ffffc0]April 10th:[-]
We got new a new pair of researchers to replace Hector and Nora: Cait and James. I guess they've been together for a long time. They were part of a group with replacements for the other research teams. I'm wondering if the other teams are losing members for similar reasons. It's too much of a risk to ask, though. 

It's taking less and less time to convince the new people how thin of a tightrope we're walking with all the Minerva test subjects around. Some of the older specimens don't even look human anymore.

[-][ffffc0]April 14th:[-]
Murray's been sending out security teams to try to recover a bunch of software for the facilities around Central. He made a pretty angry phone call to to Agatha, that old hag I used to work under in Herbert. I guess that witch has gone nuts since her cats went missing.

This must be why members of other research teams went missing as well: those blueprints were never supposed to go out. I heard Murray call it a "security risk" when on a call. This is the same guy that's making mutant zombies in labs less than 10 meters away? Unbelievable.

[-][ffffc0]April 15th:[-]
We have to make a move. Murray's guards were sniffing around the mainframe's locked door. I was the sole person with access aside from Murray! I can't be caught! I don't have any idea what they'd do to me! 

Dr. Cameron finished with the hardware for the purification device, but it'll be for nothing by the end of the day. Lassiter agrees that we need to take Murray out, but he says there's no way he'd be able to sneak a gun in, and we'd all basically get executed out of suspicion for collusion. We gotta fake out the security team and make him retreat to his bunker out of fear. After that, we can trap him. Dr. Kan finished with that upgrade a while back for central control's computer, so everything's in place for the lockdown. I have an idea.

Cait and James claim they know how to rig the shuttle's navigation software to be remote controlled via communications. The plan is to have the shuttle take off and crash into the distance, hopefully shaking the mansion. Murray will think it's an attack. His guards will probably go on full alert. It's gotta work.

[-][ffffc0]April 16th:[-]
We trapped them. 

Cait and James are dead. The shuttle took off and crashed, just as planned, but James must have got caught. I watched on the security feed as he was drug to the Minerva lab by guards. They shot him in front of Cait. She became enraged and charged at them. Two guards fired on her as she did, breaking a bunch of test samples of Minerva in the process. Bits of the samples went everywhere.

Murray wasn't fooled by the crash for very long, so Dr. Cameron stalled him inside the sanctum, claiming he saw Earth soldiers storming the halls above. Murray spooked. This bought a few more moments while I activated my hash cipher. I didn't warn Cameron, though. I had no choice - Murray had to be contained. 

Dr. Cameron got stuck inside Murray's sanctum with a few of his assistants. It was quiet for a little while. I even heard some chatter. Shortly after that, though, I heard screaming and monstrous noises. 

I thought Murray was dead, but then I heard him over the door's intercom, asking to be let out. It was like nothing had happened. I didn't answer the intercom.

I've shut the doors leading out of the basement for now. I can hear people screaming through the walls. 

It's happening. I'm all alone.