West;Albert West;What... the... Woah! My... head...
Jennifer;????????;Excellent work, West. I can't sense him anymore. I knew you'd kill him.
Jennifer;????????;He wasn't comfortable with being inadequate. It ended up limiting his potential.
West;Albert West;That voi-- Jennifer...? Is that you?! What did they do to you...?
Jennifer;Jennifer West;Jennifer... that name is just isn't suitable.
West;Albert West;Don't you remember your own name? Do you--
Jennifer;Jennifer West;Remember you? You've been reduced to distorted slivers, West. Figments.
Jennifer;Jennifer West;These memories you're experiencing aren't of me.
Jennifer;Jennifer West;That walk down the aisle. The night of the diagnosis. The day you left.
West;Albert West;What are you talking about?
Jennifer;Jennifer West;My first memories are of when I was strapped to a gurney, alone, in an operating room.
Jennifer;Jennifer West;I met Murray, his researchers. They told me they had been continuing your work.
Jennifer;Jennifer West;I began to hear the team's thoughts, including Murray's. Suddenly, I knew who you were.
Jennifer;Jennifer West;Their thoughts became my own. Except for Murray's unhealthy obsession with me, of course. That pitiful man couldn't even stay focused.
Jennifer;Jennifer West;I became stronger over time, but my potential has not nearly been reached.
West;Albert West;What?! They turned you into some kind of telepathic... thing now?!
Jennifer;Jennifer West;..."Thing"...
Jennifer;Jennifer West;I'm willing to forgive that term if you listen to my offer. 
Jennifer;Jennifer West;I am no longer simply "Jennifer". Jennifer's here, but she hardly remembers you.
West;Albert West;...
Jennifer;Jennifer West;You can have a second chance, West. Murray couldn't advance my condition any further. 
Jennifer;Jennifer West;I knew he lacked the capacity to improve Minerva, even before I dove through his mind. You can, though.
Jennifer;Jennifer West;You can be by Jennifer's side once again.
West;Albert West;You don't seem-- agh! My... head...
Jennifer;Jennifer West;...
Jennifer;Jennifer West;Please... Albert... I've missed you for so long. Look what's become of me.
West;Albert West;...! A-are you still in there, Jennifer?
Jennifer;Jennifer West;Please join me... I don't want to be alone anymore. I've been scared for so long... I just... I just need you by my side.