[ccccff][i]If you're reading this... it means everything's gone to shit.

Whoever you are, well, you're the only hope anyone has. Who am I? I'm Murdoch Rascowicz. I'm the man who never wanted to go to Mars, who never wanted to be a scientist. I knew from the start that I had no talent for it. I'm a fraud, through and through, but Dr. West...? He was something else. He was everything I wanted to be. His intuition and results... they were way out of my league.

I liked his work. As I said, actual science wasn't my strong suit, but I've got some deft fingers and a mind for security protocols... and when I see something I like, I take it. I might be a fraud of a scientist, but I'm a great thief. I've made a name for myself without a breakthrough of my own.

Too bad thieving isn't the answer to this mess.

West's research was aimed at reversing the plaque buildup and other symptoms of Alzheimer's, hoping he could save his wife from a slow death. I guess the Martian environment was ideal for his sort of research - it removed him from the constant budget constraints and red tape on Earth. After hearing West's pitch, Murray offered to fully back his pursuit and let him conduct his research at Herbert. West made some promising breakthroughs, and he confided in me that he was sure Murray was going to be impressed.

I couldn't have that.

I took an older, unstable sample and swapped it with his active sample, sabotaging the subject's restraints shortly after. I created my own little "Patient Zero", setting Dr. West up to be attacked in his own lab by his own "findings". The bastard shouldn't have survived, though. I guess he's a bit more spry than he looks. Luckily, Mars Security forces decided to throw him in prison under a litany of charges. Among the charges: murder of his test subject. He was locked up tight and out of my way. He was as good as dead. I took the remaining samples and boxed them up, giving them a fancy name: "Minerva".

I presented the research to Murray as if it were my own, but he knew I was full of shit; he had been talking with West way before I ever met him. On top of that: he knew about the years of cherry-picking data, contaminated controls in lab tests, all of it. I'm not sure why I thought that'd work. Mars MPO isn't some small circus with a drunken ringleader, but I didn't think he was the mastermind he turned out to be. I thought he'd report me to the board, strip me of my position in front of my peers, make an example of me... but he promoted me. He said he could trust me now, because now I knew who held my leash. That's the thing you need to know about Murray: he only trusts people he can control.

I'd like to tell you more, but I gotta give you incentive to come back, right? This big door in the room is one of many, and I've set them to open as you clear out the infestation. 

I had to be careful. I can't let what's inside get out.[-][-]