[ccccff][i]Why'd I ever Minerva...? Money.

The obvious perk with operating on Mars is that we can make the rules up as we go. The private sector on Earth couldn't hope to compete with the progressive leaps and bounds that we can make here. Too many nosy busy-bodies and goody-two-shoes liberals, always picketing and urging governments to disrupt groundbreaking research. This severely limited my opportunities to steal research, considering most labs were stuck at the same road blocks. Most enterprising scientists left Earth for the freedom of the Mars frontier, myself tagging along to snatch up bits and pieces to sell to the Neanderthals back home.

West may have been brilliant with a "noble" goal of eradicating Alzheimer's, but he was just as much an opportunist as the rest of us on Mars. He saw the chance to push the boundaries of his research and took advantage. Probably without hesitation, too, considering no one on the board was notified; I didn't even realize who he was when I first shook his hand. Maybe he was just desperate, but even a leap of faith's an opportunity, and this leap took him out of the boundaries that hampered his research.

So what, you think he's a "nice" guy? Why? Because he's trying to save his terminal wife? Because he only experimented on one person, and it's justified because he's trying to wipe out a disease? Ridiculous! I hate to break it to you, but there are no "nice" guys on Mars. We're all guilty up here. Every one of us has an ulterior motive. 

West's was "Minerva". 

Minerva was West's name for nanomachines that self-propagated through a subject's blood stream. These little robots would be injected into a benign location and travel through the blood to the brain, on a mission to remove plaque and rebuild lost tissue.

At first glance, Minerva was extremely effective. It reversed the progression of the disease on the test subject's gray matter, clearing up the symptoms. However, there were... "undesirable"... side effects from the treatment. Well, "undesirable" as well as "irreversible".

The patient's sudden plunge into dementia, followed by necrosis of the flesh and partial regrowth.

West knew he was onto something, but there were issues in the nanomachines' programming. The robots were overzealous in their objective, and started breaking down flesh simply so it had something to repair. Collecting data to correct this was difficult: the hosts would die shortly after.

One thing's for sure: even if it was a crazy idea to let this get out of Pandora's box, Minerva was worth a lot in the hands of someone capable. Someone such as yours truly.  A bleeding heart trying to save his poor old missus is a touching story, but Minerva was much more valuable in this state. I'd either be wealthy, powerful, or both with a bargaining chip like this up my sleeve. He couldn't finish it. It would ruin my chance to get Murray's attention. West had to go.

Clear out more of those contaminated monsters, and you'll get to know more. I promise.[-][-]